# Caching on LurkHub

One of the reasons I'm making my app [LurkHub](https://lurkhub.com) is to help me learn more about web development. One of the issues I encountered early on was caching. I needed to cache responses from the GitHub API for performance and to avoid API limits. When retrieving JSON data from the GitHub API, I wanted to cache it to avoid re-fetching the same data if the user revisited the page. However, if they added a new item to the data I would want a fresh copy. I read about [ETags](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_ETag) (or conditional requests) via [GitHub's documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/using-the-rest-api/best-practices-for-using-the-rest-api?apiVersion=2022-11-28#use-conditional-requests-if-appropriate).

```
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
etag: W/"a287ac1a2b4b05203f38e29b842e33dfa7864547"
Date: Tue, 06 May 2025 10:04:25 GMT
Connection: keep-alive
Keep-Alive: timeout=5
```

From what I understand, if the ETag returned in the HTTP headers is stored, it can be sent with the next request, allowing the web server to determine if the data has changed since the client last requested it. If it has changed it will return a status of 200 along with the new data. If it has not changed it will return a status of 304 without any data. At this point I can just return the data already in the cache. I found using the [Cache API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Cache) helped with this part as a place to store not only the content but the ETag too.

In this example the code first checks if the URL is in the cache and extracts the ETag if possible. It then makes a new fetch to the URL including the ETag. If the response is 304 it returns the previously cached response. Otherwise, if it receives a status of 200, it stores the new response (and its ETag) in the cache and returns the new data.

```
 const cachedResponse = await cache.match(url);
    const etag = cachedResponse?.headers.get("etag") ?? "";

    const res = await fetch(url, {
        headers: {
            ...(etag ? { "If-None-Match": etag } : {}),
        },
    });

    if (res.status === 304 && cachedResponse) {
        return cachedResponse.json() as Promise<Dataset>;
    }

    if (res.status === 200) {
        await cache.put(url, res.clone());
        return res.json() as Promise<Dataset>;
    }
```

I'm still getting the hang of this, but it's been working well so far. I'm glad I stumbled on the ETag solution, it would have been tricky to solve otherwise.